All right, let's take a tour of this
new app together and check it out.
So there's a lot of functionality
that still needs to be added in.
Like for instance,
you can see the RGB values,
you can't change them because there's
no action setup for that yet.
Wow, imagine that.
In a perfect world,
you could click any of these colors and
switch it into like the main color.
You can save colors was this
one called 24 Carrot in
memory until you refresh the page,
but like generally speaking,
it's got the accoutrements of a full
app that needs an implementation.
Things that does have is stored somewhere
list of 6000 different color names.
So if you happen to come across one of
the colors that has a name because there's
billions of colors, right?
If you come across one of the 6000 has
a name, it will show you the name.
And this color input definitely works.
I don't want to talk about how much time
I spent doing this looking for a color.
It's not important.
These are two of the named colors, though.
1989 Miami Hotline was
the name of a color.
That's what that one is.
Blue Fire and 24 Carat were some of the
more delightful color names that I found.
But if you get bored later, can you
scroll around looking for colors and
see which ones have names?
You, absolutely could.
We should talk later about what
you do with your free time,
but it's an option and I can't judge you
because it's what I do with my free time.
So, we have the input field we have
some amount of a reducer set up.
So we'll take a look at that and then
what we're going to try to do is kind of
get at least either a these inputs or
be clicking on these buttons to
work is kind of be a little bit of a
choose your own adventure like eventually
we should probably have both working but
like yeah, we'll have choice time as well.
So let's take a look at the app.
Right now it's using new state.
So we got to actually change this out for
a use reducer in a hot minute, but
like first let's set up some of
those actions for ourselves.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna create a new file.
Let's call it a Colors.
It's gonna have the red,
let's call it color reducer.
It can just be a TS.
We're not gonna run any TSX file in there.
Now the one setting that I have turned on,
which is good for normal,
which is like, it doesn't like
when I just have empty files, so
that will go away in a heartbeat.
Let's talk about really if we only
worried about the RGB colors and
the hex colors, which we can
figure out some abstractions for
doing better stuff in a little bit,
what would that look like?
So we have type, update.
Update color action, and
that's gonna take the equal sign.
That's an action that's going to take,
let's call it
Update hex color and its payload.
Like there are some tricks that we can see
later for like ways to get even a better
type here when we look at
template literals later but like,
It's like hex color is right now a string,
right?
And so now we've got a little
bit more of a full on put that
export to keep things happy.
We'll just say, let's make one more,
like, could you go ahead and like,
did I later in a pre-baked thing make hsv,
hsl all the other color ones?
Yes, absolutely.
But let's just do a simple one for now.
Type and we'll say, and
like I'm not even super worried about like
miss typing because I know that like,
the mistake won't bite me later because I
will have autocomplete on these two types.
Now I will need to fix it because I don't
need to embarrass myself during code
review.
But here we are, RGB and we're gonna say
that takes an array of three values.
You could just say number, number, number.
And what's cool about this is that like,
TypeScript knows that you're not just
gonna give it an array of numbers.
You're gonna give it an array
of three numbers, right?
Cuz an array of numbers could
be an array of one number,
an array of 25 different numbers, right?
This is a number, number, number, right?
In a lot of ways this is either tuple or
a tuple,
depending which way you like to say it,
you can have a string,
you can have an array of,
can be a string or Boolean or a number.
But if you say in the brackets string
Boolean number is expecting an array with
the first element is a string,
the second one is a Boolean, and
the third one is a number, right,
and this is a powerful way.
Why are we using an array for RGB?
Because the library that I'm using
to come up with the hex colors and
do all the conversion that
is not apropos to the actual
thing that we're trying to
learn here takes an array.
[LAUGH] So there's ways to, you saw me use
that return value before could I have like
pulled in the RGB function, and
unlike return value of that function,
I could have done that as well.
I'm gonna do later if I feel like it,
but for now that's yeah,
that's how this works.
So we've got that in place.
What is my color state like right now
we're gonna say that everything is based
on the hex color because why?
Because the input color field
that is built into the DOM gives
you back a hex code as
its event target value.
So that seems like a good enough
place to base our color state on,
color stable hex color state.
Just color, hex color.
It's gonna be that string.
And, cool, our initial state,
I don't have a favorite hex color that
I can remember off the top of my head,
maybe I do.
Initial state should be
of the type color state.
And this is mostly to keep me honest cuz
like I define this, I just wanna make
sure the next thing I write,
particularly while I'm live coding, is
the right shape cuz it's gonna otherwise
guess based on whatever I type in here.
Does anyone have a favorite hex color?
Seems like you're good enough
hex color the ad fi ad a five.
Just for
viewers at home watching this later,
that was Mark, [LAUGH] the founder and
CEO of Frontend Masters.
So just FYI.
Cool, so we've got that in place.
We'll make a color reducer which
is going to take stuff that we saw
me kind of riffing on earlier.
The state is going to be some
kind of color state, and
I could say that by default,
it should be the initial state.
And do I need to do both as you've all
learned, I do not want, wait a minute.
Yeah, cuz if you use curly braces,
it thinks it's an object.
Initial state, And
I like to do both cuz I don't
trust myself honestly, right?
This is kind of like it went like
cuz TypeScript will try to help and
infer things sometimes I don't want that.
Sometimes I want to triple check
everything because especially while live
coding, right?
And we'll have an action that is either
going to be the type update hex color
action or
I'll call it ColorAction in this case.
I think we should call it HexColorAction.
That will change in both places, cool.
And or
it is the type UpdateRGBColorAction.
All right, so we've got that in place.
We'll say if I was like, do I try to write
another switch statement even though I
never write switch statements.
I'm like,
now this is not the time for that.
Will say, look at that autocomplete.
Who doesn't love that?
One thing I'm gonna do is show you real
quick as I'll have action payload, right?
And so now it knows on the other side
of the equal signs that action payload,
H hex color, right because it
knows what properties are allowed
to be on an action of
the type update hex color.
So it's like yo, that has a payload
totally autocomplete that for you but
it's only got one property.
So as you're deconstructing it because
obviously it's the hex color right and
non RGB, right?
Love this makes me so happy.
And then we'll return everything else
in the state plus that hex color, right?
Let's grab some of this here for
it like cool thing.
This comparison appears to be
unintentional because you already use this
one basically.
It sounds like it's saying the only
option left is update rgb color and
you just did an rgb hex update hex color.
Yeah, if I had more things
that you'd be like, yo,
that one does not fit into all
the things I was expecting.
So you can't have two cases in here.
Right, and it's okay, cool, but
this can't be a hex color then.
Rgb, cool and now it's like well,
yeah that's not like that's not a valid
hex color so you can't do that, right?
And so it's like just again following the
red squiggles makes things a lot easier.
Yeah, so there is a library
that I'm going to pull in.
I think it's what, color convert.
Other trick.
You start with this and go.
If you don't remember exactly
what you're pulling out.
Yeah, there it is.
Cool yeah, normally we write it the other
way like Python does import the library
and then what you want which would be
a lot easier for us but here we are.
Typed, it was great to protect you
from lots of silly mistakes, but
not ones that are totally legal and
legit JavaScript, right?
So yeah, I pulled in this RGB and
I'm using it up here.
All right, like before I was like,
Yo, it looks like it's not being used.
And yet, if I wrote it up there at work,
but here was redefined,
because one line above enclosure scope
you can have a variable that has
the same name in
a different closure scope.
And that is totally legal and
valid JavaScript.
That is not what I wanted.
So yeah, some of the rules still apply.
So let's not redefine the same name
as our conversion function here.
We'll just say context color is easier.
Multi cursor later, will say, look,
RGB is now what I think it is.
RGB.hex exactly what I wanted, and
I will pass it in action.payload.rgb.
Now you could say maybe getting
a little fancy, deconstructing
wasn't the greatest and you're doing
it again over here, it's fine.
So cool, now I have both of those
actions kinda taken care of.
Again, just to validate.
We can see that it's type the tie
does not exist on never because
we've handled all cases for
the action object and it's tight.
Like that's it,
that's all they can possibly be.
We know I'm still going to do this,
because I have it, honestly.
So I don't trust myself and
I don't want to get bitten by it later,
but probably forget that.
Nice, so now we've got that as a full
on reducer let's export it and
we can go ahead and
switch out an application.
Let's set state with like say const,
useReducer.
And that's going to bring in What
did I name that reducer before?
Color reducer.
And look, it's angry because I'm not
getting the right initial state,
which I probably didn't export or
did look at me.
Cool, so we've got that in place.
And what's nice is it's gonna
know the types in this case.
So we know that state.
And if I pull it down here, you can see.
It's got hex color.
It automatically has the typing
of everything there.
So I can even say, look, and that works.
And we'll grab dispatch out.
Cool, and now on change,
what we want to do is say
Yeah, update-hex-color.
And again, was that a key?
I don't really have to remember because
all of my typing will handle stuff for me.
What you angry about?
One argument we got to
Say it's actually event target value do
you don't fancy there but it caught it for
me so that's good.
That's not inside an object.
Paul, what's you angry about now?
Payload, it's got to
be wrapped in payload.
That's why I made that object before.
Like, the nice part is if I had
messed it up in JavaScript,
you know what I would have found out?
When I went to change
the color a bunch of times.
Or when I already had a pre-written
component test and all those things.
Like, all of those are feedback
loops that I don't love.
That said, let's make sure.
Cool, all my functionality works.
We learned what Mark's favorite
color actually looks like.
Which is a little bit
of like a snack grain.
>> Definitely not very poorly.
>> [LAUGH] Yeah, no,
I didn't say it was like yeah,
delude that was your favorite color.
We know why you chose it.
I'll leave that as
an exercise to the reader.
But we have that kind of in place,
so we've got that wired up.